---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Import Data


## Functions 

Support import from OpenAPI Spec(Swagger), Postman, HAR, RAML, JMeter, apiDoc, I/O Docs, WADL, Google Discovery and other data formats. Easy migration for existing projects.


## Quick Start


### Manual Import

  Go to the Project Settings page and click Manual Import to select File Import or URL Import.

The import options include: API, data model, environment, test cases.
> 
> Please be aware that:
> 
> 
> 1. Import format for OpenAPI/Swagger: API, data model, environment 
> 2. Import format for Postman: API

### Manual Import - Advanced Options

1. API Override Methods:
    1. Overriding URL: When two files have the same URL and methods, the new file will override the old one. 
    2. Overriding URL in the same collection: When two files have the same URL and methods and are in the same folder, the new file will override the old one.
    3. Not overriding URL: When two files have the same URL and methods, the new file will not be imported.
    4. Retaining both URLs: When two files have the same URL and methods, the new file will be imported but the old file will not be deleted.
2. File Override Method (markdown documents, data models, test cases, interface cases).
    1. Overriding file:  when two files have the same name, the new file will override the old one. 
    2. Overriding file in the same folder: when two files have the same name and are in the same folder, the new file will override the old one.
    3. Not overriding file: When two files have the same name, the new file will not be imported. 
   4. Retaining both files: when two files have the same name, the new file will be imported but the old file will not be deleted. 
3. Import to collection: support file import to specific collection
4. Import API use case: Turn on API use case import. All the API use cases are selected by default. You can also select specific APIs in API import preview. 

    tips:


    When importing files in non-Apidog format, the API use cases will not be imported if the names of API use cases are not unique. Only API use cases with unique names will be imported. 


    When importing files in Apidog format, the API use cases will be overridden if the names of API use cases are the same. API use cases with unique names will be imported directly. 


### Auto Import

Go to the project settings page and click on auto import. You can set multiple data sources and import them to certain collections at the same time. 

> 
> Please be aware that:
> 
> Only an admin user can auto import based on import frequency in project settings when the app is opened. 
> 
> Other users will not trigger auto import. 
> 
> 
## Importing different data sources 


###  1. Import from OpenAPI(Swagger)

We support importing from  json or yaml files in OpenAPI 3 and Swagger 1,2,3 data formats. 

> Please be aware that:
> 
> When importing a URL, you need to fill in the URL of the json or yaml file, not the URL of the Swagger UI.


### 2. Import from Postman 

We support importing from Postman Collection v2.1. 

How-to-export: Find Collections in the left side menu on Postman, hover the collection to be exported, click on …, select Export, and then select Collection v2.1(recommended) to export (as shown in the screenshot below).




### 3. Import from apiDoc

We support importing from api_data.json or api_data.js. For details, please visit [https://apidocjs.com](https://apidocjs.com/).

How to export: 


1. Install node environment locally, use apidoc with version 0.29.0, go into the source file directory, and execute npx apidoc@0.29.0 -i src -o dist. 
2. src is the API for the source file. dist is the file generated by compiling apidoc commands. Under the dist directory, there are api_data.js and api_data.json, which are the API files used to import into Apidog. 

